All right.
Now that we've seen how to run code from a file we can start writing slightly longer slightly more complex
scripts to add logic into our code to actually make decisions.
The key mechanism we use is something called a conditional statement.
A conditional statement can have three different pieces and if and else if anyone else and we'll go
through them in order and we're going to start with if so if allows us to run certain code.
If a given condition is true.
We spent a healthy amount of time talking about these different operators and they all evaluate to TRUE
or FALSE they all evaluate to a Boolean.
Now we can use them instead of a conditional where we end up with either a true or false.
And if that thing is true if the condition is true our code will run.
So let me show you the simplest example that we could do.
I'm working in an app J.S. file that's connected to my index HMO.
I have my index opened up over here.
I'm looking at the console.
Let's delete what I had in there.
Close down my sidebar.
The simplest possible conditional looks like this.
If something this isn't valid as it is right now.
But if some condition that becomes either true or false if it's true.
Run the code in here.
So let's do something like if 1 equals 1.
Consider log it's true we'll save I'll refresh my page.
And we end up with.
It's true.
This code runs if this becomes true.
If you were to copy that and pasted here we get true.
Now if we did something like this if one is not equal to one we know that that is false and gives us
false.
I'll refresh my page now and we don't see anything.
This code does not run.
So we've written our first simple piece of logic our first decision that actually impacts which code
runs based off of this condition.
Now we'll learn how to write much more complex ones.
But let's take a look at a couple of different examples.
Here's one where I'm modeling a typical performance review.
You might have at a company where your manager or your peers rate you on a certain scale and we're translating
that Numeric Rating to feedback like you're a superstar you need improvement you meet expectations.
We could model that over here.
I'll just write a quick comment example 2 we'll have a rating variable instead of equal to three and
we can simply check if rating is equal to three.
We'll consider that log you are a superstar.
I don't know why it's all caps but it works.
I'll refresh the page and we end up with.
You are a superstar.
We change rating to two.
We need improvement.
We don't get that printed out.
We could also do something like If rating is less than three instead of printing.
You are a superstar.
We could print comes to lug.
How about we just go back to what we had.
You are not a superstar because only three is a superstar.
I'll refresh.
We don't see anything.
But if I change it to two we get the slightly harsh feedback.
You are not a superstar in all caps.
So I'm can undo that and go back to what we had because we're gonna build on this example and just a
bit.
So this is the first part of a conditional I mentioned there are two other things we can add on this
is checking for a single condition and we can have multiple of these if we wanted to.
We actually already have two of them in a single file.
Both of them are being evaluated.
This one is false.
So that doesn't run.
This one is true.
So it does run but if we change rating it may not run.
Here's one more example.
Nice and simple.
Let's say we have a number let numb and it's equal to 37.
Let's print out something.
If the number is even or let's go with something if the number is odd how do we tell if a number is
odd.
We go back to that modulo operator we saw early on the percent sign using the remainder.
So we divide by two and check the remainder Using MODULO and if two goes evenly into a number that means
it's an even number.
So the remainder would be zero.
So for an odd number we'll just check if the remainder is not zero.
So let me show you that.
If num mod 2 is not equal to zero consider log odd number.
Let's see what we get.
And I refresh.
We should see number four I change it to 38.
Nothing.
All right.
So those are three simple examples of conditionals very short ones where we only have one piece one
condition and if this is not the case we just keep moving on whatever code comes after will be run.
Next we're going to see else if which we can chain on with our if.